[FLINK-33436] Documentation for the built-in Profiler (#24403)
apache/flink: docs/content.zh/docs/ops/debugging/profiler.md

---
title: "Profiler"
weight: 3
type: docs
aliases:
  - /ops/debugging/profiler.html
  - /ops/debugging/profiler
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Profiler

> Since Flink 1.19, we have supported profiling JobManager/TaskManager process interactively with [async-profiler](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler) via Flink Web UI, which allows users to create a profiling instance with arbitrary intervals and event modes, e.g ITIMER, CPU, Lock, Wall-Clock and Allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Flink 1.19, we support profiling the JobManager/TaskManager process interactively with [async-profiler](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler) via the Flink Web UI, which allows users to create a profiling instance with arbitrary intervals and event modes, e.g ITIMER, CPU, Lock, Wall-Clock and Allocation.
```

> - **CPU**: In this mode profiler collects stack trace samples that include Java methods, native calls, JVM code and kernel functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CPU**: In this mode the profiler collects stack trace samples that include Java methods, native calls, JVM code and kernel functions.
```

{{< /hint >}}

##  Usage
Flink users can complete the profiling submission and result export via Flink Web UI conveniently.

For example,
- First, you should find out the candidate TaskManager/JobManager with performance bottleneck for profiling, and switch to the corresponding TaskManager/JobManager page (profiler tab).
- You can submit a profiling instance with a specified period and mode by simply clicking on the button **Create Profiling Instance**. (The description of the profiling mode will be shown when hovering over the corresponding mode.)
- Once the profiling instance is complete, you can easily download the interactive HTML file by clicking on the link.

{{< img src="/fig/profiler_instance.png" class="img-fluid" width="90%" >}}
{{% center %}}
Profiling Instance
{{% /center %}}

## Troubleshooting
1. **Failed to profiling in CPU mode: No access to perf events. Try --fdtransfer or --all-user option or 'sysctl kernel.perf_event_paranoid=1'** \

> That means `perf_event_open()` syscall has failed. By default, Docker container restricts the access to `perf_event_open` syscall. The recommend solution was fall back to ITIMER profiling mode. It is similar to CPU mode, but does not require `perf_events` support. As a drawback, there will be no kernel stack traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That means `perf_event_open()` syscall has failed. By default, Docker container restricts the access to `perf_event_open` syscall. The recommended solution is to fall back to ITIMER profiling mode. It is similar to CPU mode, but does not require `perf_events` support. As a drawback, there will be no kernel stack traces.
```
